# Classifying-the-Temporal-Effects-of-Prostate-Cancer-Death
 Within this study, a multistep data mining process was preformed that consisted of 4 main phases, data collection, data wrangling, statistical modeling and model analysis. The first phase was broken into several stages. First, the proper raw data was collected from SEER Stat, an online medical database. Once the data was collected, it was filtered, missing and duplicate values were removed, and the future model target was converted a discrete binary value from a contentious time period. This process was performed using a simple logic gate that set 1 for survival over the allotted number of months and 0 for fatality before this threshold. This completed the first phase of the data preprocessing. The next step in this pipeline was a 5-fold cross validation sequence that randomly selected the training and testing datasets with the intent of accurate and unbiased modeling results. From this point, due to the imbalanced nature of the model target Random Under Sampling (RUS) and Systematic Majority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE) where utilized to balance the dataset. Finally, ANOVA and a Random Forest were used to select significant features for improved model performance. At the conclusion of the data preprocessing and transformation, statistical and algorithmic modeling techniques were used to properly classify the fatality within 1 year, 5 years and 10 years of prostate cancer diagnosis. Once these where fully trained and tested the final step in the data pipeline was the model analysis and results presentation. 
